20240423-ruyisdk-biweekly-20.md, before:

# RuyiSDK双周进展汇报  第020期·2024年04月23日

## 卷首语


## 包管理器

RuyiSDK 0.9 对应的包管理器版本也为 0.9.0，已于今日发布。您可移步
[GitHub Releases] 或 [ISCAS 镜像源][iscas]下载体验。

[GitHub Releases]: https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.9.0
[iscas]: https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.9.0/

本次 RuyiSDK 包管理器的更新主要包含了以下内容：

* 支持解包 LZ4 格式的压缩文件了。

本次 RuyiSDK 软件源的更新主要包含了以下内容：

* 支持矽速（Sipeed）全线 RISC-V 产品。Ruyi 设备安装器现已新增支持以下设备型号：
    * Sipeed LicheeRV Nano
    * Sipeed Lichee Cluster 4A
    * Sipeed Lichee Console 4A
    * Sipeed Maix-I
    * Sipeed Tang Mega 138K Pro

欢迎试用或来上游围观；您的需求是我们迭代开发的目标和动力。

## IDE


## GCC


## LLVM

### T-Head Vector 拓展

- 继续完善 LLVM intrinsic 函数，自上次更新以来，新支持了这些类别下的函数：
  - 15.1. Vector Single-Width Integer Reduction Operations
  - 15.2. Vector Widening Integer Reduction Operations
  - 15.3. Vector Single-Width Floating-Point Reduction Operations
  - 15.4. Vector Widening Floating-Point Reduction Operations
  - 16.1. Vector Mask-Register Logical Operations
  - 16.2. Vector mask population count vpopc
  - 16.3. vfirst find-first-set mask bit
  - 16.4. vmsbf.m set-before-first mask bit
  - 16.5. vmsif.m set-including-first mask bit
  - 16.6. vmsof.m set-only-first mask bit
  - 16.7. Vector Iota Operations
  - 16.8. Vector Element Index Operations
- 继续完善 Clang intrinsic 函数，自上次更新以来，新支持了这些类别下的函数：
  - 16.1. Vector Mask-Register Logical Operations
  - 16.2. Vector mask population count vpopc
  - 16.3. vfirst find-first-set mask bit
  - 16.4. vmsbf.m set-before-first mask bit
  - 16.5. vmsif.m set-including-first mask bit
  - 16.6. vmsof.m set-only-first mask bit
  - 16.7. Vector Iota Operations
  - 16.8. Vector Element Index Operations

## OpenJDK


## V8


## 官网


## 操作系统支持矩阵

Commit message:

Update 20240423-ruyisdk-biweekly-20.md for OpenJDK

20240423-ruyisdk-biweekly-20.md, after:

# RuyiSDK双周进展汇报  第020期·2024年04月23日

## 卷首语


## 包管理器

RuyiSDK 0.9 对应的包管理器版本也为 0.9.0，已于今日发布。您可移步
[GitHub Releases] 或 [ISCAS 镜像源][iscas]下载体验。

[GitHub Releases]: https://github.com/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/tag/0.9.0
[iscas]: https://mirror.iscas.ac.cn/ruyisdk/ruyi/releases/0.9.0/

本次 RuyiSDK 包管理器的更新主要包含了以下内容：

* 支持解包 LZ4 格式的压缩文件了。

本次 RuyiSDK 软件源的更新主要包含了以下内容：

* 支持矽速（Sipeed）全线 RISC-V 产品。Ruyi 设备安装器现已新增支持以下设备型号：
    * Sipeed LicheeRV Nano
    * Sipeed Lichee Cluster 4A
    * Sipeed Lichee Console 4A
    * Sipeed Maix-I
    * Sipeed Tang Mega 138K Pro

欢迎试用或来上游围观；您的需求是我们迭代开发的目标和动力。

## IDE


## GCC


## LLVM

### T-Head Vector 拓展

- 继续完善 LLVM intrinsic 函数，自上次更新以来，新支持了这些类别下的函数：
  - 15.1. Vector Single-Width Integer Reduction Operations
  - 15.2. Vector Widening Integer Reduction Operations
  - 15.3. Vector Single-Width Floating-Point Reduction Operations
  - 15.4. Vector Widening Floating-Point Reduction Operations
  - 16.1. Vector Mask-Register Logical Operations
  - 16.2. Vector mask population count vpopc
  - 16.3. vfirst find-first-set mask bit
  - 16.4. vmsbf.m set-before-first mask bit
  - 16.5. vmsif.m set-including-first mask bit
  - 16.6. vmsof.m set-only-first mask bit
  - 16.7. Vector Iota Operations
  - 16.8. Vector Element Index Operations
- 继续完善 Clang intrinsic 函数，自上次更新以来，新支持了这些类别下的函数：
  - 16.1. Vector Mask-Register Logical Operations
  - 16.2. Vector mask population count vpopc
  - 16.3. vfirst find-first-set mask bit
  - 16.4. vmsbf.m set-before-first mask bit
  - 16.5. vmsif.m set-including-first mask bit
  - 16.6. vmsof.m set-only-first mask bit
  - 16.7. Vector Iota Operations
  - 16.8. Vector Element Index Operations

## OpenJDK

1. Proposed JDK-mainline PRs:
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18558 (8329355: Test compiler/c2/irTests/TestIfMinMax.java fails on RISC-V)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18611 (8329641: RISC-V: Enable some tests related to SHA-2 instrinsic)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18668 (8329823: RISC-V: Need to sync CPU features with related JVM flags)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk22u/pull/135 (8329823: RISC-V: Need to sync CPU features with related JVM flags)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk21u-dev/pull/472 (8315652: RISC-V: Features string uses wrong separator for jtreg)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk17u-dev/pull/2377 (8315652: RISC-V: Features string uses wrong separator for jtreg)
- https://github.com/openjdk/riscv-port-jdk11u/pull/16 (8291893: riscv: remove fence.i used in user space)
- https://github.com/openjdk/riscv-port-jdk11u/pull/17 (8284937: riscv: should not allocate special register for temp)
- https://github.com/openjdk/riscv-port-jdk11u/pull/18 (8285303: riscv: Incorrect register mask in call_native_base)

2. Reviewed JDK-mainline PRs:
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/17745 (8321010: RISC-V: C2 RoundVF)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18040 (8321021: RISC-V: C2 VectorUCastB2X)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18175 (8327716: RISC-V: Change type of vector_length param of several assembler functions from int to uint)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18191 (8327794: RISC-V: enable extension features based on impid (Rivos specific change))
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18370 (8328404: RISC-V: Fix potential crash in C2_MacroAssembler::arrays_equals)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18435 (8326960: GHA: RISC-V sysroot cannot be debootstrapped due to ongoing Debian t64 transition)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18382 (8317720: RISC-V: Implement Adler32 intrinsic)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18599 (8329083: RISC-V: Update profiles supported on riscv)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18611 (8329641: RISC-V: Enable some tests related to SHA-2 instrinsic)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18668 (8329823: RISC-V: Need to sync CPU features with related JVM flags)
- https://github.com/openjdk/jdk/pull/18445 (8327743: JVM crash in hotspot/share/runtime/javaThread.cpp - failed: held monitor count should be equal to jni: 0 != 1)


## V8


## 官网


## 操作系统支持矩阵
